# Framingham-Heart-Study
The Framingham Heart Study dataset (frmgham6.csv) offers vital insights into the risk factors associated with mortality. Using machine learning models for analysis: Logistic Regression, Random Forest and XGBoost, identification of several key predictors of death have been unearthed in this report. These insights can inform St Francis Hospital practices and improve patient outcomes. This report presents evidence from data science on why an audit framework at St. Francis Hospital to implement routine patient chart and electronic medical reviews should be sought. The report also highlights strategies to mitigate risks associated with these predictors of death for the patients at St Francis Hospital system in order to improve outcomes.
The Logistic Regression model shows high accuracy and precision at 96.47% .It is especially efficient at identifying patients who are not at risk of death, which could be useful for resource allocation and prioritizing patients with higher risks. Both the Random Forest and XGBoost models portray an accuracy of 100% in predicting those patients who will die from those that will not die, based on risk factors. Both models are excellent for predicting all patients but especially the high-risk patients for death. This analysis also ranks the risk factors for death in descending order per the logistic coefficients of regression: time to death, age, current smokers, time to hypertension, sex ( men being more predisposed to death as opposed to women), BMI, total cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, glucose, diastolic blood pressure, number of cigarettes smoked in a day and so many others. Refer to Figure 13 for the rest of the factors.
This analysis recommends auditing and monitoring of key risk factors, regular updates made to patient charts with key health metrics (such as age, cholesterol, blood pressure, BMI and smoking status) to ensure the risk predictions are based on the latest data. Tracking these factors at each patient visit could improve early detection of high-risk individuals for death. Secondly, prioritizing monitoring of patients with borderline metrics is recommended for patients with metrics close to the decision threshold. More frequent monitoring and follow-up appointments are recommended to reduce the number of false negatives (patients missed as high risk).
The recommendations and insights in this report are therefore firstly to implement chart audits: regular audits of patient charts should be conducted to ensure accurate recording of the most relevant clinical features (age, cholesterol, blood pressure, and smoking).Secondly, it is to develop follow-up programs: patients identified as high-risk based on these factors should be enrolled in follow-up programs, focusing on managing modifiable risks such as smoking cessation and hypertension management. Thirdly, further model validation is required, despite perfect accuracy, it is essential to validate all three models on new data or perform cross-validation to ensure it generalizes well to other patient populations at St Francis Hospital system. 
Fourth, clinical decision support systems are recommended; integration of  the Random Forest model, XGBoost and Logistic Regression models into St Francis hospital systems electronic medical record, ( MyChart ), will assist clinicians in decision-making, allowing them to flag high-risk patients for closer monitoring by healthcare providers, and thus helping improve patient outcomes. Implementing these changes will also assist the hospital to be compliant with provisions set forth by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act in achieving healthcare goals for patients based on set standards of care.
